---
layout: level-one
title: Teaching
description: Information about my courses and syllabi.
keywords: teaching
published: true
---

Education and teaching are an important part of the academic, curatorial, and public programming work I undertake. In the past, I have taught courses in architectural history and criticism at the University of Houston's Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design, Pratt Institute's Graduate Center for Planning and the Environment, and the Art History and Visual Culture Program at Bard College (Annandale-on-Hudson). In addition to the standard classroom settings, my educational work engages with other formats and mediums, for example [digital history](https://mcny.nyc/nyresponds/timeline/). 

Across these different formats and sites, my pedagogic methods advance an interdisciplinary, global, and social-justice framework for the study of architecture and urbanism. In Fall 2018, at Bard, I taught “Talking Architecture,” an introductory class on how to think about architecture, emphasizing issues of ethics, labor, and maintenance alongside visual aesthetics, acoustics, and smell. In Spring 2019, I taught a graduate seminar on American architecture and urban history to preservation students at Pratt Institute's Graduate Center for Planning and the Environment (GCPE), teaching recent immigrant environments alongside the more typical study of the architectural environments of European settlers. Most recently, I taught several courses at the University of Houston. In a required graduate seminar, I built upon and further diversified an existing syllabus on modern architecture and urbanism, both teaching this movement as a multi-nucleated one and highlighting its structural racialism. In Introduction to the History and Theory of Architectural Media, I co-developed -and -taught with Meg Jackson a pilot undergraduate lecture class on media in architecture - and architecture as media. Finally, I developed a seminar titled "Architecture's Others," which took an intersectional approach to studying issues of race, gender, religion, and labor in architectural practice and history.

Independently, I have developed several upper-level and graduate syllabi. A class titled “Kingdoms of God” studies the impact on religious thinking on art, architecture, and the public sphere in the U.S. Other syllabi examine American philanthropy’s impact on art practices and the built environment worldwide, architecture’s intersection with nationalism and internationalism, and Orientalism. Over the summer of 2020, I was asked by Pratt Institute's GCPE to create a syllabus for a survey class on global architecture up till the early-twentieth century.
